>> Kent C. Dodds: So we're gonna talk
about different forms of testing
really briefly.
This is one form of testing,
Static Code Analysis.
This is happening through
a tool called ESLint.
If you have your editor
configured to work with ESLint,
you might see some ESLint
warnings as you're going through.
ESLint can be really helpful at
identifying very simple bugs.
There's also static type checkers
like Flow that can catch also,
pretty simple bugs.
But, in general,
the nice thing about these tools is that
they work statically and so
they don't have to run your code.
So you don't have to
really write these tests.
With Flow, you're sort of writing
tests in the source with the typing.
But yeah, in general,
there's not a whole lot of effort around
writing these kinds of tests or
configuring these kinds of tools.
So I highly recommend
that you use these tools.
We will not be using these tools today.
I thought it was enough just
to teach you testing React.
It'd be a whole another workshop to
teach you a static type checker.
But in your applications, I definitely
in React recommend using flow-typed or
TypeScript, and
then obviously ESLint is kind of a given.
One thing I should say about ESLint
is please don't enforce style
rules with ESLint like code style,
code formating.
It's silly, because we have Prettier,
an amazing tool that will automatically
format your code for you.
Use that instead, and then us ESLint
just to catch actually problems like.
Variables aren't defined, stuff like that.
Because the last thing I wanna do is see a
red squiggly because I have an extra space
after the function keyword.
My code's still gonna work, and
then Prettier's gonna fix that
when I hit the save key anyway.
So here's just a quick
example of a unit test,
don't look to closely because
this is you first exercise.
Just kidding,
feel free to look as closely as you like.
So we have React and ReactDOM.
And when you wanna render an application,
you ReactDOM.render.
You could do the same thing in your test,
there's nothing wrong with doing that.
And I'll show you with Jest,
you can configure it to simulate
the browser environment in Node.
And it's using jsdom, so
doing document.creatElement totally works.
And yeah, you just use the component
the way that you would use
it in a source code elsewhere.
And then you can make assertions
based on what is rendered.
So we'll look deeper into that, but
unit tests are generally
pretty straightforward.
And from a purist standpoint, a unit test
will mock out all of the dependencies.
I care less about that.
So for me, the unit versus integration
test is a little bit fluid.
But in general,
unit test is a kind of a smaller test,
testing something in particular.
Integration tests with regard to React is
a little bit kind of a bigger experience.
And so here we're rendering the entire
application with the router.
And we can specify, hey,
route to this page and
I'll show you how to do all this stuff.
And so it takes a little bit more work.
You have to mock out API calls and stuff.
But with this, you're rendering more of
the many components working together.
Yeah, so
that's the idea of an integration test.
You get a lot more coverage with
an integration test than you do with
the unit test.
But in general, they can be a little bit
slower and also can be a little harder to
set up, because of the network requesting
things that you have to mock out.
End-to-end tests is
a totally different thing.
It's not Jest.
This is with Cypress.
And you're kind of treating
the application as a black box that user,
from a user's perspective clicking
on things and typing in some text.
And then verifying the state
of the application
sort of in a way the user would.
And so
that is an example of an end-to-end, and
we'll look into all of
these forms of tests.
Okay, so
I'm not gonna go too deep into this, but
this is link to a blog
post They have called.
But really what is a JavaScript test?
Where I kind of iteratively build an
insertion library and testing framework.
We actually did that in
the testing workshop yesterday.
And if you're interested, then you can
jump in the project in the other directory
whats-a-test and start with 1.todo and
follow the instructions.
And you too can build your assertion
library in JavaScript framework.
But the fundamental concept
of a test in JavaScript
is it's something that throws
an error when things are wrong.
So if I pass the numbers one and
two to the sum function and
I don't get three back,
then I'm gonna throw an error.
And then the testing framework's
responsibility is to make it clear
why that error occurred,
where the problem is, and how to fix it.
That's kind of a hard task, but that's the
general idea of what a JavaScript test is.